1. Tell me about yourself
	a. Name and education
	b. Company and work timeline ( Oct - 2021, Nov -  2022) 
	c. Project details (Basic Use case, Modules available and each module's high level use case , which modules you have worked on ) 
	d. Reason for career break 
	e. Looking for new opportunities
	
	Hi, Good Afternoon. 

	I am Sayani. I am from Bengal. I am having around 4 years of work experience in Software Testing  over 3 years with relevant experience in Java, Selenium, 
	Automation with TestNG.
	My last company was Oracle(from Sep, 2021 to Oct, 2022), there I have worked in FLEXCUBE application in Banking domain. I was a part of the Build Acceptance 
	Testing(BAT)team, where we use OATS or Openscript as well as Selenium-based automation framework for day-to-day functional, Unit and Regression testing. 

	My responsibility was to : 
   
	1. analyze  and write testecases from user stories
	2. Execute and review the test results with Tech and Business stakeholders.
	3. Raise bugs into jira and report on a daiy basis
	4. perform regression and obtaining user sign-off 
	Accross different modules of the flexcube apps.
	Although my core responsibility was to work on test automation i have also workd on unit-testing, non-functional testing and certain manual test cases 
	throughout my career. I was also recognized for Quarterly Excellence Award for handling testcases with higher accuracy.
	Currently, I am looking for a suitable role where i can apply my technical and functional skills in the testing domain and contribute to the team in a way 
	that positively impacts the organization and also helps me to improve myself . Thank u.
	
	Rolls & Responcibilities:
	
	My responcibility was Write, Review and Execute Testcases, perform Functional, Unit and Regration testing across different modules (CASA/CL/CI/Trade etc)for FLEXCUBE
	Version 12.1 to 14.5 using OATs as well as Selenium based Framework. EOD batch testing across various versions, Functional testing with different languages  like French,
	Chinese, German ect. And identifying various issues or defects and reporting it using defect tracking toos BugDB, Optimization of Testcase execution. Preparation and 
    consolidation of the test execution results and publishing it through mail.	
	
	Project details:
	FLEXCUBE : Different Modules: CASA, CL, CI, TRADE
				Action Code: New, Copy,Close,Auth,Delete
	CASA: (Current Account & Savings Account)How to create Savings & Current Account.
	CIF(Function id-STDCIF)- Create Customer, What are the data we are inputing, How Many types of customers, What are the difference we are having for different type of customer
	STDCUSAC- By using this fid We can create customar.
	CL - Loan Account Creation, Loan Disbursement & Loan Repayments
	F_id:1. CLDACCNT:Create a new loan.
	2. CLDPYMNT:Payment of loan.
	Limtit - GEDMLIAB
	Facility - GEDFACLT
	Customer & Liability Linking - GEDCULIK

	


2. Tell me about your daily responsibilites in your last project.

	a. Daily stand up
	b. Analyse test requiremnt stories ( JIRA - EPIC) 
	c. Receive test case - Clasify between Manual, Automatable testcses
	d. Reviewing Test Plan - with Tech/Test Lead 
	e. Documenting Test Cases - Writing test scripts
	f. Taking evidences and generate reports
	g. Raise bugs 
	h. Retest the fixes
	i. Regression testing

 
3. Tell me about some challenges you faced in your last company?
a. 

4. Did you use any Source Control Management Systems?
	GIT - 

SVN 
TFS
Urbancode


5. General Challenges in Automation testing : 
	1. Cross browser testing
	2. Remote 
	3. Batch Execution
	4. Group
	5. Communicating across differnt team(If identify any bug before 2-3 days of release, then after raising bug, contract with assigned Developer for perticular modules)
	6. Env related issues ( infra) 
	7.Synchronisation issue for end to end scenarios (Sometimes we use custom waits)
	8.Finding x path for dynamic web element.


6. How you used to classify the bugs:
	1. Invalid
	2. Duplicate
	3. Not Reprodusable
	4. Can't Fix
	5. Deffered or Postpond
	6. Request for enhancement
	
							----These are the vary rare cases , if developper is not accepting it as abug 1st time itself.
							
	Seviarity: It is for us best on the defect functional impacts  on the application.
	Priority:  Best on the business impacts on the issue.


Tell me about your Project:

Oracle FLEXCUBE univarsal banking application, It is basically used in some of Banks like HDFC, RABO Bank, Access Bank, Abudhabi Commercial Bank. This application is usually used by Bankers to reduce time loss for newly launched some of banking features.
In this application there is one login page where we have to login through two types of users 1. Maker user & 2. Checker users, For every versions and every module 
wise we have to create different maker and checker users. Through these 2 users we can login to home page. After login in home page, it will show through which 
user we have used to login. In home page on left hand side there some tasks are indecating, these are New, Auth, Copy, Reopen, Update, Close, Delete. By using checker 
user we can only do the Auth operation and for other operation we have to login through maker user. On right hand side of home page there is a text field for function 
ids, After entering these function ids ,it will indicate or open differnt corresponding pages.
	Our testcases are generally creating on different functions and there differnt corresponding tasks basis, means New, Auth, Close, Reopen, Delete, Copy.
Now I am entering module wise , those modules are CASA, CL, CI, LEMO, TRADE, RT ect. I worked on CASA and CL modules.
CASA:
The full form of CASA is Current Account & Savings Account. For this Casa module main 2 function ids are STDCIF and STDCUSAC. Stdcif is generally used to create 
Customer and Stdcusac is used to create Account for corresponding customers. Now these customers are generally divided into 3 types , -Individual, Corporate and Bank.
During creation of customers we have to enter some of fields, suppose Address, Id profe, immage, Liabilities etc. After Completing every operation, means either new or copy or update , We have to Authorise that perticular operation. Other wise We are unable to use that information for further operation.
STDCUC is for Account creation, this is depends on Account Class , Which indecates Silver, gold and Premium customer, which also depends on ther salary limit.
This Account class sections are also open through fid-STDACCLS.
Similarly different activities are customise through different function id pages.

CL:
If I am talking about CL, then it is completely talks about creation of loan. The corresponding fid is CLDACCNT, for this fid also need to create New, Auth, Copy 
those operations. These loans are also devided into different categories, Home loan, Car loan, Business Loan ect, those are also depends on there corresponding
gold, premium and silver customers.
Need to pay these loan also thats why there is also another fid, CLDPYMNT, for payment of loan. 

